feat: Add docs for API versioning (#694)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/backend-requests/versioning/overview.mdx

---
title: Versioning Overview
description: A brief guide on how versioning works in Clerk.
---

# Versioning

## Introduction

> When backwards incompatible changes are necessary for an API, new versions are released to prevent disruption to existing applications. These versions are identified by their release date, such as 2024-01-02. Both the frontend and backend APIs follow the same version.

Reviewer: 🙃 Maybe use the initial version as an example instead?

```suggestion
When backwards incompatible changes are necessary for an API, new versions are released to prevent disruption to existing applications. These versions are identified by their release date, such as 2021-02-05. Both the frontend and backend APIs follow the same version.
```

Author: Good call, fixed 🙏

---

> title: Versioning Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Versioning overview
```

description: A brief guide on how versioning works in Clerk.
---

# Versioning

> ## Introduction

Author: Fixed!

When backwards incompatible changes are necessary for an API, new versions are released to prevent disruption to existing applications. These versions are identified by their release date, such as 2021-02-05. Both the frontend and backend APIs follow the same version.

> A complete list of all the available versions with their changes can be found on the [API Versions](/docs/backend-requests/versioning/available-versions) page.
> 
> ## What Constitutes a Breaking Change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A complete list of all the available versions with their changes can be found on the [API versions](/docs/backend-requests/versioning/available-versions) page.

## What constitutes a breaking change
```

A breaking change is any modification that would require users to alter their existing setups. These include:

- **Change in property type**: Altering the data type of a property in either requests or responses.
- **Removal of a property**: Deleting a property or parameter from a request or response.
- **Change in property name**: Renaming a property in request or response payloads.
- **Backwards incompatible endpoint changes**: Implementing changes in an endpoint's functionality that older client versions cannot support. For instance, adding a new status to the sign-in process.
- **Endpoint removal**: Discontinuing access to an existing endpoint, which remains accessible in earlier versions.

> ## Using a specific version

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I suggest dropping this, and renaming the sub headings. I've suggested new names for the subheadings, and bumped them up to H2s

> ### With SDKs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Choosing an SDK version
```

Author: What do you think of `When using an SDK`?

> If you're utilizing a Clerk SDK, version management is simplified. Each SDK version corresponds to a specific API version, so by updating the SDK, you're also updating to the latest compatible API version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are utilizing a Clerk SDK, version management is simplified. Each SDK version corresponds to a specific API version, so by updating the SDK, you are also updating to the latest compatible API version.
```

> If you are utilizing a Clerk SDK, version management is simplified. Each SDK version corresponds to a specific API version, so by updating the SDK, you are also updating to the latest compatible API version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each Clerk SDK version corresponds to a specific API version, so by updating the SDK, you're also updating to the latest compatible API version.
```

Just simplifying the text a little

Author: Much better, fixed!

> ### Direct API access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Choosing an API version
```
Changed heading title so we don't need the "Using a specific version H2"

Author: Fixed!

When making direct API calls to an endpoint, there are three options to specify the version:

> 1. **Query Parameter**: Set the `__clerk_version` query parameter in your request URL.
> 2. **Clerk-Version Header**: Include a `Clerk-Version` header in your requests.
> 3. **Dashboard Setting**: Set a default version in the Clerk Dashboard. This version will be used if one is not explicitly specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Query parameter**: Set the `__clerk_version` query parameter in your request URL.
2. **Clerk-Version header**: Include a `Clerk-Version` header in your requests.
3. **Dashboard setting**: Set a default version in the Clerk Dashboard. This version will be used if one is not explicitly specified.
```

> 3. **Dashboard setting**: Set a default version in the Clerk Dashboard. This version will be used if one is not explicitly specified.

Reviewer 3: Could you describe where this setting is? I wasn't able to find it in the dashboard. Just a sentence like "Set a default version in the Clerk Dashboard by selecting your app, then visiting **Settings** → **API Keys** → **Version**." or something along those lines, whatever the actual path is.

Author: It's not available yet 😅 I will update this part when it's ready.

> If both the query parameter and the header are present in a request, the most recent version will take priority.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">
If both the query parameter and the header are present in a request, the most recent version will take priority.
</Callout>
```

IMO this should be a callout

Author: Added the callout.

> In the event that both Query Parameter and Clerk-Version Header are present in a request, the most recent version will take priority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If both the query parameter and the clerk-version header are present in a request, the most recent version will take priority.
```

A breaking change is any modification that would require users to alter their existing setups. These include:

- **Change in property type**: Altering the data type of a property in either requests or responses.
- **Removal of a property**: Deleting a property or parameter from a request or response.
- **Change in property name**: Renaming a property in request or response payloads.
- **Backwards incompatible endpoint changes**: Implementing changes in an endpoint's functionality that older client versions cannot support. For instance, adding a new status to the sign-in process.
- **Endpoint removal**: Discontinuing access to an existing endpoint, which remains accessible in earlier versions.

## When using an SDK

Each Clerk SDK version corresponds to a specific API version, so by updating the SDK, you're also updating to the latest compatible API version.

### Choosing an API version

When making direct API calls to an endpoint, there are three options to specify the version:

1. **Query parameter**: Set the `__clerk_api_version` query parameter in your request URL.
2. **Clerk-API-Version header**: Include a `Clerk-API-Version` header in your requests.

> 3. **Dashboard setting**: Set a default version in the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys). This version will be used if one is not explicitly specified.

Reviewer 2: I don't see where you can set the default version on the API Keys page - did you link to the right place?

Author: This will be the place but its not yet available. It will be introduced when the first new (second) version is released 😅 After talking with @kostaspt we decided to remove the section about the dashboard until it is ready so we can merge the docs now.

<Callout type="error">
  You must choose only one method to specify a version. Using both the query parameter and the header simultaneously will lead to an invalid request. 
  The same is also true when the version is invalid. 
</Callout>

### Webhooks

> Webhook events will always use the API version set in the Dashboard. You can reply any events that fail due to the version switch.

Reviewer 2: did you mean replay?

```suggestion
Webhook events will always use the API version set in the Dashboard. You can replay any events that fail due to the version switch.
```

Author: Removed this part for now!
